Welcome back.
Let's show you the very first way that we had modules in JavaScript or used the concept of modules in
JavaScript.
It was called the module pattern and I'm going to just comment this code out for now so we can talk
about the module pattern a bit as we've discussed modules.
Give us a better way to organize these variables and functions so that we can group these variables
and functions that make sense together in terms of organizing things in JavaScript.
We had the idea of the global scope and then we had the idea of the function scope and that's what we
had in Javascript.
I mean now we also have a concept with of the block scope which we've discussed that we get with left
and const but before that we just had these two different scopes but ideally in an ideal world we have
a another scope which is the module scope that is actually a little bit higher up than the function
scope so that we can combine multiple functions together under this module scope but still not pollute
our global namespace and this module scope can be used to share these variables between different functions
as well so that we can share things without having to go through the global scope in this way with a
module scope we can be explicit.
Which of the variables classes or functions in the module should be available.
We can say hey this module module one I want you to export this and this function and then inside of
another module we can say hey this module I want you to import this and this function from this other
module that's as being explicit saying directly hey this is what I want.
This is what I'm importing.
This is what I'm exporting and we were able to create this module scope this module pattern well with
something called the module pattern.
You see programmers in JavaScript land because we didn't really have classes got clever and we decided
to use closure and encapsulation to create our own module scope and this is what it looked like
function expression because it is in brackets and then executing it we've seen this before right.
It's an immediately invoked function expression or and if he because we are wrapping it in a bracket
Well it's not a function declaration because the first thing that the compiler sees won't be function
and then we're immediately invoking it calling the function like this.
So we're using the idea that we have function scope to simply just write all our code in here that will
be private to this function but we also have the ability to access global variables.
So I can still access the window object or any variable outside of it and this is essentially a function
as a module because if we wrap the entire file let's say in our case our Harry Potter example if I just
put the entire piece of code here.
Now we've removed everything from the global scope this file still gets run.
For example if I do fight here Harry and Baltimore and let's just console log this if I save and refresh
here look at that we are able to run this function over and over and I'm refreshing refreshing
and every once in a while Harry Potter wins as well.
There you go but I don't have access to fight anymore or we have access to fight over here.
But if we comment this out and save and refresh.
Fight is not defined.
What about Harry.
Harry is not defined either.
We've removed global name spaces but what if we wanted other scripts to use this fight function.
But we don't really want them to touch Harry or Voldemort because while they're private variables using
an iffy and the module pattern I can simply say variable fight module equals this entire thing.
So this which we call the module pattern allows us to assign to this variable whatever the return of
this function is that gets immediately invoked so we run this function and then something gets returned
to fight module so I can simply say in here return and whatever we want to make available in our case
we want to return an object that contains fight and we don't want to return Harry and Voldemort because
those are private variables so let's have a look at this works.
If I refresh your and I do fight look at that under my fight module I have the object fight.
Now keep in mind if I do just fight here on that window object.
No that's an error.
It's not a global variable but under our fight module that we've created I can call fight and do different
things like Ron
vs. let's say Hagrid and if I run this look at that Hagrid wins and other pieces of code can now use
this functionality but only what I tell it to.
Essentially what we're doing is saying hey this is our public API.
This is our interface.
We're only exporting this but everything else that I'm not exporting.
You can't touch how cool is that and this pattern of returning what we need is actually called the revealing
module pattern.
We just reveal whatever we need so we can have private functions if we want.
So private functions that we don't export.
We can have those.
If we wanted to we can have private variables and we just specifically say what we want to give up to
the public.
And as we know because of closure even though this function gets executed because we returning a function
inside of a function this fight function.
For example if we call it we'll still have access to Harry and Voldemort if we really wanted to.
Now the other benefit of this was used by libraries like Jacqui for example when people used to use
J query a lot on their Web sites.
And I have the script here to grab our where file from a CDM let's copy that and added to the top over
here.
Now this allows us to have a J query global import.
If I save this let me say this as well if I go back to indexed on a Schimmel and refresh and do J query
look at that we have access to J query now because we've added and underneath the hood This is what
J query is doing it saying hey I'm going to define a J query variable that I'll return and this J query
variable Well it's going to have access to different things not everything in our library but some things
that you might need.
For example if I use another script tack here and inside of this script Dag let's just we won't need
to create a new file would just write it over here we can see a variable script two is going to equal
while we can create our own module pattern saying function and inside of here we can actually use J
query using the dollar sign which we get access to so if I do dollar sign and then select the h1 tag
which we have over here the hello and then do quick and then inside of here we have a callback function
that will just select the H1 and it will just
so that if I save this and refresh and I click here.
Look at that.
It disappears.
My H won and the beauty of this pattern is that whatever I define in here well won't get touched.
For example if I bring back another script and this time around we have the we have a global secret
and variable fight.
Well this global secret.
If I wanted to I have access to it in here.
So let's have global secret and I'm going to make it equal to
to zero.
If I see this and refresh if I do global secret it's now zero.
Hmm.
That's not good right.
We just modified a now they're global variable so how can we solve this.
Well what if.
Here we import our global secret which is available in our global scope.
Right over here we call the function with global secret and we pass it in as a parameter and we can
name it whatever we want.
We can say global secret or we can just say gee s for short so that if we use GSK now
and I safe here the global secret remains the same.
But if I do G.S.
Well we don't have access to it because it's inside of our module just to clarify this point.
If I do global secret here.
So it's the same thing.
And it's the same name.
If I change this to global secret just like it was before and I refresh global secret is still one two
three four because when it comes to JavaScript and we say hey I want global secret to be zero the JavaScript
engine is going to look and say hey local scope do you have global secret.
And it's going to say yep I have global secret secret it's in my parameter as part of our variable environment.
So I'm going to modify that.
So it's not going to go up the scope chain to the global variable to change that.
I hope you see the power in that because this way I can start adding to inside of my modules things
like Jacqui and now Jake we're in here I can define it whatever I want such as the dollar sign.
This will still work but if for some mistake I modify the dollar sign within this code to equal to normal
or undefined
Well the dollar sign or J.
Query is still there the dollar sign it's still there because we're not modifying anything outside of
ourself so using the module pattern we're able to make something available to the outside world using
a public API like this by returning it and attaching it to a variable we're exporting things and other
modules can explicitly say hey I want to use this global variable and be explicit about what they're
using so that it makes our code more clear as to what we need from the global variable.
Now let's take a break here and in the next video talk about some of the benefits with the module pattern.